=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

xuserrun - Run a command as the currently-active X.org server user

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Usage: I<xuserrun> [program] [--options*] [...*]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

xuserrun allows a command to be run on the X.org user's display.  It determines the DISPLAY and USER environmental variables of the logged-in user necessary to run a program through the X.org server display.  Its primary use is to be able to run a X.org program from within another environment (different user, console, cron, boot script...).

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 4

=item B<xuserrun xclock -digital>

To run xclock in digital form.

=item B<xuserrun notify-send "Hello, Dave.">

To send a notification to the desktop.

=item B<xuserrun bash -c "xterm & xclock">

A shell will need to be invoked to run more than one program at a time.

=back

=head1 BUGS

xuserrun is designed for use on a single X.org server display (one X.org user desktop running at a time).  xuserrun cycles through systemd's recorded active login sessions starting from the first login until it discovers a valid DISPLAY variable and then defines the USER and DISPLAY variables.  If other displays are being used, xuserrun will be unable to determine them.

xuserrun assumes that the user is on the default loginctl 'seat', and
will need to be modified if you require multi-seat support (see <http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/multiseat> for more information).

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<loginctl>(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

Todd Partridge E<lt>toddrpartridge@gmail.comE<gt>, <https://github.com/rephormE>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright  ©  2013  Free Software Foundation, Inc.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.  This is free software: you are free  to  change  and  redistribute  it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.